E questo è tutto, ma non dimenticare Mario e mantenere il cuore.
Come vedremo in dettaglio nell'introduzione, la vostra contribuzione è già più ricca e generosa.
Tieni duro.
And don't give up, resisti to the temptation we all experience with aging of saying, sono stanco e ho già dato.
I invite now Professor Giuliano Amato to offer us a few words he might like to offer.
Professor Amato, Minister Amato, you have the floor.
Thank you. I didn't even expect to speak this morning.
Non funziona? No, forse va.
I was saying I didn't even expect to speak this morning, also because I have such a huge cold that speaking is difficult.
But having said so, I'm here for the simple reason that Mario is now 70, I will be 70 next year,
and we have been friends and working together every once in a while for most of our lives,
which is quite a long time at this stage of our lives.
Well, of course, Mario's life is, I was defining it in these words a few minutes ago, is really extravagant,
because if you think of a young man going to Poland during the communist regime,
working on the communist economy under teachers that were special teachers at the time,
I remember, I myself, the first booklet by Oscar Lange translated into Italian is still in my personal bookshelves.
But, I mean, at the time, the 60s, you could not expect the same man to be back in Poland more than 30 years later
as an advisor to the finance minister of the time and working together for that economy
just to go out of the communist patterns and reach the level of a market economy.
And this is what he did.
My personal reflection on this is that it makes sense.
If you know Mario, what he has written, what he was looking for also in the 60s,
I think that the finance minister of the post-communist Poland picked the right advisor,
picked the right advisor, because Mario was not looking for the celebration of the communist economies of the time.
He was looking for something impossible, at least it turned out impossible, the reform from inside.
Several of us were thinking at the time that the reform from inside was feasible,
but certainly looking for that, the relationship between the role of the state and market incentives
was something that he could master much more than others who advised post-communist economies in transition,
not mindful of essential aspects of the transition.
And this is Mario's advantage.
Privatizing without liberalizing.
I remember that when he was in Poland the second time,
I was head of the Italian Antitrust Authority and we were working with our Polish colleagues.
And it was so clear to them and to me and to others how important it was going beyond privatization,
creating the framework of a competitive economy,
how important it was to rebuild the state and therefore to have not the destruction of the state,
but a market-oriented public administration which is something that is still missing in some of the economies
that we have in our Eastern Europe.
The second reason for me to, let's say, sympathize with Mario's work is what economists call the economics of participation.
In the late 70s I was heading the Institute of Research of the Main Italian Trade Union, CGL,
at the time in a sort of joint venture with Bruno Trentin.
Mario was around somehow and we were looking for new patterns of participation.
We invented Bruno and I, the piano d'impresa, the enterprise plan,
but there were other things, investment funds, etc.
And Mario again, so eager to find out something that could work, everybody knows in Europe,
how was the name of Pepper? Pepper was participation, promotion of employees, participation to profits and enterprise results.
Pepper.
The acronym was invented by Mario.
So you see we have here his minister in Poland and you see the European head that invented this Pepper, great.
Well, nowadays again this has remained a topic that needs the solution that we haven't found.
In a time when, let's say, the share of...
