Sottotitoli creati dalla comunità Amara.org
Se vi sedete...
Ci sono molte altre persone in l'altra parte della città.
Quando sono arrivato, ho detto, come si fa?
Ci sono molte persone.
Tutti erano in città per un caffè.
Per un caffè.
Parla con...
Come si chiama questo?
Sì, si, ci ha parlato.
L'altro ha detto, ok, fai, è un'excellente idea.
E lui ha detto la tua idea di un citto di conferenze.
Naturalmente dobbiamo identificare i temi che siano in qualche...
Ma avere uno sponsor come Laboi non sarebbe una cosa...
Cominciando ad avere questi sponsor.
Ormai le compagnie aeree sono meglio delle banche, che è tutto dire.
Le banche sono un vero disastro.
Veramente, chi l'avrebbe mai pensato?
Chi l'avrebbe mai pensato?
Sì, per l'Italia è un problema, perché il grosso del non profit
è tutto delle fondazioni che infatti io ho con i profitti del banco.
Se i profitti del banco scendono, tutto il non profit in Italia si trasconde.
Sparisce?
Questo è grave?
Sì.
Io parlo diversi.
Ok?
Il seguimento progressivo alle realtà che emergono nel panorama internazionale
e che sono rese ancora più importanti e delicate e complesse
dalla crisi economica e finanziaria nella quale il mondo si trova oggi.
Quindi questi sono gli assi della politica estera italiana,
riassunti molto brevemente,
che noi pensiamo di poter continuare a mettere a disposizione
della nuova amministrazione americana,
come, ripeto, abbiamo fatto nel passato con tutte le amministrazioni
del nostro amico ed alleato transatlantico.
Non ho certamente definito un'agenda del nuovo presidente americano,
ho cercato di definire l'agenda di politica estera dell'Italia.
Ma l'importante è che queste agende siano sempre più concordanti fra di loro
e sempre più indirizzate verso il conseguimento di risposte comuni
alle sfide che ci fronteggiano.
Vi ringrazio.
Bene, io ringrazio i nostri amici e le istituzioni che esse rappresentano.
Ora passiamo al primo panel.
Io mi trattengo, ma anche tu sei padrone di casa.
Ciao, stavi bene.
Allora, Michael e John.
Questo è l'unico bicchiere che se ne va, questi sono tutti a posto.
We have too many chairs now.
Abbiamo troppi segni.
I'm John Hart, my friend.
Ok.
Ok, we switch to English now,
because we have two American speakers.
There is, I suppose, a simultaneous translation for those who need it.
And therefore, the new president's foreign policy agenda,
which will somehow be the thread of our entire day of panels and discussions.
We begin with two wonderful speakers.
I don't know whether you are familiar with them.
Michael Lind is a very sort of extravagant expert in these matters.
I like him also because he has published poetry and a book for children.
I like very much the idea.
I did it myself, but it was not supposed to be published.
It was just written and it was published also.
Not so successful as yours.
But I mean, it was nice anyhow.
I don't think the initiative for this will come from Obama himself.
If you look at the people, the economic advisors he has surrounded himself with,
they are quite centrist traditional people.
Paul Volcker, for example, and not to mention Larry Summers.
But there's going to be strong pressure within Congress,
within the Democratic Congress,
and within various constituencies of the Democratic Party
to change the liberal rules of the game,
which many feel have penalized the United States.
To conclude, and for the sake of argument,
and since there hasn't been much good news recently,
let me give you a few reasons to be optimistic
about the future of U.S.-European relations at least.
The first is that the worst of the war on terror and Iraq effect
on transatlantic relations is over.
Obama's election has already had a positive effect
on the European view of the United States.
And if the U.S. plays its cards right,
this improvement can continue for the next four years.
Intellectual clichés like America as Mars and Europe as Venus
have been discredited, in particular in the U.S.,
where they were once taken seriously.
The latest cliché, the return of history,
that the future will look like the 19th century great power conflict,
I think is also misleading,
and I hope that believing it does not become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Although some argue that U.S. and European values
and social models are diverging,
there has now been a convergence in terms of regulation,
regulatory and financial questions.
I think that the big economic and strategic interests of Europe
are still similar.
I think the elites on both sides of the Atlantic
basically recognize this, that we are in the same boat.
I think it's even possible that in light of their recent military
and financial failures, the U.S. elites,
I was going to say comeuppances,
but I doubt if the translator would have a word for that.
How do you say that in Italian?
Comeuppance.
In light of their recent military and financial failures,
the U.S. elites may even be ready to take more seriously
than they have in recent decades their own rhetoric
about the idea of an equal partnership,
which goes back to the Kennedy and Truman
and Eisenhower administrations.
In other words, perhaps something resembling an equal partnership
between Europe and America is an idea whose time has finally come.
Thank you.
Very good.
So even though there was no previous agreement between the two of you,
there was a reason for having Michael Lin speaking first
and you speaking second, because he said to us where we are now,
and after him you said to us where President Obama can go from here
and where all of us can go from here, somewhere else.
We have just understood that we have to go somewhere else,
but not exactly where to, which is already something.
Having said so, now it's already 11.30 and the second panel should begin now.
Okay, but we are entitled to some more minutes because we begin later.
Let me take with your permission, which is not very democratic,
this is the typical case of guided democracy,
let me state at the beginning that we will take three questions,
no more than three, and therefore please the three one after the other
and you will respond to all of them in order to...
So, Madame, you are the first one, I have a second here and a third there,
and that's all.
Guided democracy has some sort of cost.
I read a very interesting article by Michael Adhett in the Time International
and it said it's time that America realized that you have to cooperate
and work with the rest of the world.
The ambassador said you have to contain the al-Qaeda.
Obama in his election speech said that he wanted to talk to Taliban in Afghanistan.
Maybe a lot of, rather the impositions and talking helps out in a lot of things.
Do you think that the Obama administration will talk to Taliban to solve the problems?
This happened in Iraq because they engaged the Sunni administration
and then they had the peace talks afterwards.
Thank you for your presentations.
My question refers to the background that you made during your presentations.
There is the three realities which were made by John Harper,
the three realities of the current US administration,
and the war of choice, the war of necessity.
Which will be the US policy toward long lasting conflicts in Africa,
I mean like Darfur, which has the potential to spill over, or it has already done.
Thank you.
Thank you both, it was a very good start.
Michael, very quickly, I agree with you that strategically integrating the BRICS
into a Euro-Atlantic norms-based system is the strategic challenge for the next 30 years.
That's the game.
Can we create a new order where they are status quo players and not revolutionary players?
Do you have any ideas practically on how that can be done?
Because to me that is the overriding question and the rest of this to some extent is flummery.
Mr. Harper, the point that kept striking me as you were talking is
not that you're wrong about American comeuppance,
but no notion of European weakness in this.
We are both in relative decline.
Europe may be in a steeper decline, you can certainly argue that.
How do you set up a partnership when that's the situation?
You only looked at the problems that America had
without looking at the problems Europe has,
which is contextually going to be part of this bargain
that you rightly talk about needs to be made.
But to ignore that is not to be able to make that bargain.
It's not very encouraging, that's the notion.
Okay, so you now have the minute.
Well, brief answers to the three questions.
With respect to talking to the Taliban,
it's my understanding that the US military would like to repeat
what went on with the Anbar Awakening,
that is a matter of diplomacy and of psychological warfare
to separate Al-Qaeda from some of its allies,
particularly among the Pashtuns in Afghanistan.
If you look at how terrorist movements are defeated,
it often comes from the separation of those with purely political motives
who think that the militant aspects are counterproductive
from the die-hard militants.
So that would seem promising.
I'm sure the United States will not have any negotiations with Al-Qaeda,
but if they can separate Al-Qaeda from some of its allies,
then I think everyone would agree that that's a promising strategy.
With respect to Darfur, if my analysis of US public opinion is correct,
as well as Professor Harper's correct emphasis
on the fiscal constraints of the US military,
I believe that the cost of US interventions in Iraq and Afghanistan
have pretty much eliminated the likelihood of large-scale humanitarian interventions.
That's not to say you can't do something on a small scale,
particularly with allied help,
but I don't foresee any major humanitarian interventions
involving the US military in the next few years.
And finally, integrating developing countries like China, India and Brazil
into a new system of status quo powers.
I think that can be done,
but only if the new multilateral economic order is results-based rather than rule-based.
Let me repeat that.
It needs to be results-based rather than rule-based.
These are countries at different stages of industrial and financial development,
and they have conflicting interests.
I think the United States and some of its allies
prematurely wanted a global agreement
on international economic rules and regulation
that took the form of adherence to laws and law-like regulations.
I would just recommend a return to diplomacy.
That is, in areas of trade and finance, everything is negotiable,
and it's not a matter of settling on one system of universal rules once and for all.
That's an idea, based on results and not on rules.
I don't know how we can do it, but anyhow.
Yes, please.
Okay, I think on Afghanistan, I think I agree with what was just said.
I think that probably Petraeus's inclination will be to try to split the,
call them the viable elements of the insurgency,
as he did with the awakening councils in Iraq.
I think that's the right approach to take.
You have to try to split those who will be bought off
and will be integrated into the system,
and who are angry because their families and clansmen have been killed,
as opposed to those who are hardcore al-Qaeda.
You have to split the two.
There's a very good article by Barnett Rubin in The Current Foreign Affairs,
where he talks about this.
He also talks about the problem of Pakistan, which most of us ignore,
probably because it's so complicated, we can't understand it.
Something has to be done to reassure the Pakistanis that the Afghani...
