interessante e importante, ma che può avere effetti negativi.
Per i centri tecnici,
abbiamo imparato il messaggio fondamentale dei centri tecnici
di aiutare le proprietà ad apprendere.
Ci sono dei servizi di cui le proprietà, soprattutto di piccole dimensioni,
avranno bisogno, a causa della loro incapacità, di internalizzare
tutte le fasi del processo produttivo o dei servizi,
ma che, per l'altro, non conoscono.
Questa è la funzione dei centri tecnici
e è una funzione pubblica,
quindi una presenza è necessaria.
Il ultimo punto, e su questo concludo,
sono i community colleges.
Bene, il punto che mi ritengo è l'idea in se stessa,
il fatto che possa esistere,
deve esistere una formazione tecnica
a preduzio e non necessariamente universitaria
che deve essere gestita direttamente con le proprietà
e, a luogo di una struttura universitaria.
Bene, questi sono i punti generali
che concernano tutti i membri dell'OCDE,
sono i punti su cui ho trovato la mia attenzione
e sono punti a complesso delle cose che la signora Odile Sallard ha detto.
Vi ringrazio molto, signor Presidente.
Signor Presidente, voglio dire che siamo a conclusione
di due giornate di lavoro
che hanno beneficiato di tutto quello che sa offrire
una città come Modena,
una città di grande storia, leggiadra e nobile
e che ha favorito la discussione tra i più grandi esperti
dell'OXE, dell'Occident, dell'Occident, dell'Occident,


e di paesi delegati di vari paesi
che hanno partecipato a queste due giornate di lavoro.
Quello che è importante è che l'Italia
in qualche modo si fa sostenitrice
di questa istituzione dell'OXE, come lei l'ha detto
quando ha incontrato il segretario generale Johnston lo scorso anno,
e anzi ha ribadito certi punti forza,
azioni propositive nel programma dell'OXE.
E sono lieto ora di dare la parola al decano
dei segretari generali dell'OXE,
il vero Dean, malgrado la giovane età,
Joanna Shelton, che viene in qualche modo a dirle
quello che è il consensus del Consiglio Ministerale
che si è appena svolto qualche settimana or sono a Parigi
e dirle quelle che sono le preoccupazioni dell'istituzione
in quanto tale, in modo da poter ascoltare lei Presidente
e portare al Consiglio dei Paesi membri le sue preoccupazioni.
Quindi, se me lo consente, prego il segretario generale aggiunto,
Joanna Shelton, di darci il suo messaggio.
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Mayor,
other distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen,
I am truly very honored to be with you here today
in the historic and economically important city of Modena
in the region of Emilia Romagna.
The OECD greatly appreciates the opportunity
to cooperate with the city of Modena in holding this conference
to discuss the many important questions related to building
competitive regional economies.
Modena and Emilia Romagna are well known
for their Roman antiquities and cultural amenities,
and I should add for their excellent food,
which I tested today and last evening,
but they are equally well known for their agricultural specialties
and industrial prowess.
They provide a good example of the important linkages
that exist between local and regional economies on the one hand
and national and international economies on the other.
Our work at the OECD and the work of this conference
make it clear that government policies at all levels
must take into account a wide range of factors
that together affect the economic viability
and competitiveness of cities, regions and nations.
You have focused in depth for two days on the challenges
entailed in crafting effective regional policies
and the experiences of OECD member countries in that regard.
I would like to take a step back and give you my perspective
on how those regional policies are intimately linked
with policies at the national and international level.
I will do so by describing some of our activities at the OECD
and the views of our ministers as recently expressed
at our annual meeting of ministers.
OECD ministers, during their annual meeting in April in Paris,
focused their attention on a range of issues of concern
on the international economic scene.
Among them was the recent economic crisis in Asia
and its implications for the countries directly affected
and for OECD countries.
Ministers noted that the crisis has highlighted
the growing interdependence of countries in the world economy
as well as the importance of having well-functioning markets
and efficient economies and supportive mechanisms
of international cooperation.
Stable macroeconomic policies backed by sound
and transparent public finances and control of inflation
are an indispensable part of the equation.
Of equal importance, both to countries in Asia
and to countries in the OECD and elsewhere,
is good public governance and effective structural policies
relating to financial systems, regulatory reform,
corporate governance and labor and product markets.
Finally, ministers agreed that it is important
that all countries maintain open markets for trade
and investment so that the benefits of participation
in a global economy can be realized.
This latter point relates to an issue that ministers discussed
at length during their annual meeting, and that is
how to respond to the challenges which globalization presents
for OECD members and non-members alike.
The world is growing smaller and nations and regions
are more closely linked than ever before in history.
This is due to the significant reduction in trade
and investment barriers in the post-war period
as well as to the revolution in transportation
and communications technology.
Today, the volume of world trade in goods
is about 16 times its level in 1950.
Foreign direct investment outflows have increased
even more rapidly, rising 25-fold in the past 25 years
from $14 billion to $350 billion annually.
Increasing numbers of countries are involved in
and benefiting from the dynamics of globalization.
The latest World Development Report of the World Bank
has reported that world poverty has been reduced more
in the past 50 years than at any time in the past 500 years.
This is no accident.
More countries around the world have come to understand
that go-it-alone or protectionist strategies do not work.
They have come to realize that participation in the global economy
brings ideas, competition and growth to home markets
and provides an outlet for creative local entrepreneurs.
Yet the phenomenon that is known as globalization
also means change in economies and societies.
Issues which until recently were solely or primarily
of domestic concern, such as taxation, regulation
or even environmental policy, increasingly have implications
that carry beyond national borders.
As a result, there are constituencies in all parts of the world
who fear or resist the changes brought about
by globalization and technology.
This is an area where government action
and open public debate is critical.
At their April meeting, OECD ministers addressed these concerns,
drawing on a recent OECD study entitled
Open Markets Matter, the Benefits of Trade
and Investment Liberalization.
That study examines the experience of member countries
in the post-war period up to and including
the Uruguay Round, the North American Free Trade Agreement
and the European Single Market, and demonstrates the clear net benefits
for economic growth, employment and prosperity
brought about by trade and investment liberalization.
The study also deals with the growing public concerns
on social, labor and environmental issues
and shows that liberalization
is not the most important cause of transformation
in our economies and societies.
Many other factors are in play,
most notably technology-driven structural change.
Moreover, protection is not the answer to these social concerns.
What is needed are policies targeted to the root of the problem,
and that is where the work of this conference
on regional development policies and work in other parts of the OECD
is so important.
Before addressing the question of regional policies,
I'd like to outline briefly some of the ways in which the OECD is working
to maintain and improve the capacity of economies
to grow and adapt to change.
The mission of the OECD is to promote economic growth
and development in member and non-member countries
and to contribute to an open international trade and investment system.
We engage policy makers such as yourselves
from member countries on a range of issues of common concern
across virtually all major economic and social disciplines,
and we work together to develop appropriate policy responses.
Some examples include the OECD jobs strategy,
the OECD recommendations on regulatory reform,
and our current priority work on corporate governance
and the challenges posed by electronic commerce.
In some policy areas, our members enter into legally binding commitments,
such as the convention prohibiting bribery and corruption
of foreign public officials signed by ministers last December.
Another example is the Multilateral Agreement on Investment, or MAI,
currently being negotiated by OECD countries
and an important number of non-OECD countries.
International investment has become increasingly important
as a vehicle for economic growth and integration.
Yet unlike trade, the multilateral system lacks a framework for investment.
The MAI will provide a comprehensive and stable framework for investment,
guaranteeing non-discriminatory treatment for foreign and domestic investors
in signatory countries and a means of settling disputes.
Once completed, and I remain very optimistic that it will be,
the MAI will give new impetus to growth, employment and living standards.
If signed by Asian crisis countries, the MAI would send a very positive signal
to foreign investors about the investment climate in those countries.
Now the issues I've touched on above may seem far removed
from your preoccupations at the conference over the past two days.
I would suggest they are not. They are complementary.
Building and sustaining economic growth at the local and regional level
requires a solid architecture for the global economy
with fair and transparent rules for all.
As so many of your examples show, small and medium-sized firms
are active not only in the local or regional economy,
they also are increasingly important players in international markets.
Small and medium-sized firms, which are so important to Italy and this region,
will benefit most from a successful multilateral agreement on investment
since large multinational firms already have access
to numerous markets through investment.
There is a clear complementarity between the challenges
of international economic performance
and the challenges of regional economic development.
None of us can overlook the fact that protectionist pressures
against continued trade and investment liberalization
are most acute in those areas and regions
which fail to create their own economic dynamism.
This brings me to the importance of regional development policies.
At their meeting in Paris, OECD ministers expressed their concern
over the persistence of employment and income disparities
between different regions even in countries enjoying rapid economic growth.
These disparities threaten national cohesion
and also undermine overall economic performance
by weakening links between regions
and generating spillover costs for the economy as a whole.
The lack of regional convergence in OECD countries is a clear sign
that some areas are less able to adapt their economies
to changing circumstances than others.
This lack of convergence creates pressures to resist change
and encourages wasteful subsidies.
But national policies alone may not be sufficient
to address these regional disparities.
It seems clear that in some cases, traditional policy responses
must be complemented with more targeted approaches.
Regional policy, combined with appropriately designed structural policies,
are one possible way to address this challenge.
This conference has explored many of the elements
that are necessary components of a successful regional development strategy
and has outlined areas for future work.
There are numerous examples of small towns and rural areas in OECD countries
whose relatively underdeveloped economies following World War II
were transformed into prosperous industrial centers
in a surprisingly short period of time.
The experience of the industrial districts in the Emilia-Romagna region
are among the best known.
A major element in the success of the Emilia-Romagna region
appears to have been the ability to incorporate new ideas
and to innovate on the foundation of a highly skilled labor force.
This did not require expensive research and development or product development.
Rather, it was the result of incremental innovation
and a highly efficient transfer of knowledge and technology within the area.
This experience confirms the experience of other countries
where past policies relying on financial and fiscal incentives
for regional development have proved to be controversial, costly,
and, despite some success stories, not highly effective over the long term.
Governments increasingly are seeking regional policy approaches
with clearer developmental objectives
and which develop and harness local resources and capacities.
Yet, countries' experience in this area is limited.
The challenge for you as policymakers and experts in the field is twofold.
First, to try to improve our understanding of the factors
that affect regional economic competitiveness,
and second, to work to elaborate best practices in this area
in order to guide future policy.
The challenge is also to draw upon and integrate your work with
that taking place at a national and international level in other disciplines,
such as labor markets, human capital development, and entrepreneurship.
We at the OECD are prepared to contribute our expertise to this effort.
Indeed, this conference is one example of the types of cooperative approaches
that can be pursued with experts from governments, think tanks,
academia, and the private sector.
The global economy offers immense opportunities.
Successfully mastered, it holds out the most promising opportunity
to contribute to a continued increase in the living standards
of citizens of all countries.
But globalization is not a process which is free of risks.
It increasingly requires governments to learn from each other's policy successes
and failures, and to cooperate in fashioning policy responses
to the common challenges faced by all countries.
The important lessons learned from Italy's experience in regional development,
as well as the experience of other countries, should be put to good use
in helping all governments prepare their economies and societies
for a world of the future.
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen,
I thank you once again for the great pleasure and honor of joining you
in the beautiful city of Modena to discuss these issues,
and I look forward to continued cooperation with you in the future.
Thank you.
Presidente, prima di darle la parola, vorrei che il primo cittadino di questa città,
il sindaco Giuliano Barbolini, che ci ha accolto con tanta generosità,
dica delle parole di giusta presentazione.
Grazie.
Rapidissimamente, io esprimo una soddisfazione,
perché lo svolgimento di questi due giorni di discussione
ha corrisposto almeno alle nostre aspirazioni e attese.
Noi siamo una realtà che ha conosciuto e conosce
una dinamica di sviluppo particolarmente qualificato,
così come è caratteristica di questa regione,
e credo che questa potenzialità positiva
è stata anche riconosciuta autorevolmente dall'OXE
come un laboratorio interessante sul quale stabilire delle relazioni
e da mettere in rete con altre esperienze e situazioni.
Nonostante questi elementi di positività,
però noi ci misuriamo anche come sfide di un mondo che cambia
e quindi con la necessità che è il tessuto delle piccole e medie imprese,
che questa dimensione territoriale riesca
a esprimere una maggiore capacità sistemica
per competere meglio come territorio nel suo insieme,
sapendo far diavogare le istituzioni,
l'agire dei soggetti privati, imprenditoriali, dei lavoratori
e anche la capacità di innovazione.
Il tema della capacità di innovazione
e il raccordo con i luoghi dove si fa ricerca
che può essere poi spesa a servizio dei processi produttivi
è uno degli elementi sui quali maggiormente ci interroghiamo e cerchiamo di lavorare.
Mi pare che da questa conferenza,
da vindicazioni e dai suggerimenti che poi l'OXE tradurrà in direttive,
possano uscire degli stimoli sicuramente utili per noi,
anche perché noi abbiamo visto dalla discussione di questi giorni
confermate alcune linee di lavoro sulle quali stiamo cercando di operare
e mi auguro che la nostra esperienza
confrontata con quella di altre realtà e situazioni
possa anche concorrere ad arricchire...
