Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's really a pleasure and an honor to be here and give
you a brief description of some of Israeli high-tech aspects. I'll try to do it briefly
because I guess that we are kind of slipping a little bit on the timetable and later on probably if
you would like to ask more specific questions we'll be in the round table and I'll be more than
happy to answer on any specific questions. So I'm going to concentrate mostly on the electronics
and the software industries of Israel and just briefly describe to you what we do. In general
absolute terms obviously our electronic industry is not so big probably as the Italian one but
it still represents Israel being a small country more than 26 percent you will see of the total
export and also quite substantial part of our gross national product. In general the revenue
is growing at the rate of about 13 to 15 percent a year, the export at about 15 percent a year and
it is typical as you may know to the high-tech industries usually they grow twice or three
times as much as fast as the gross national product and that is in any country. I mean if the GDP or
GNP grows at about six percent you'll find that the high-tech industry grows at about 15 percent
and that's the reason for a shortage of manpower that has just been described by the Prime
Minister. We are kind of running the world is running fast we are in the information society
and obviously the educational system did not gear itself up to the fast development which
are happening at the high-tech industry and we have this same symptom. Presently we have about
40,000 employees within the output per employee which comes to about the 1996 figures as already
at the range of about $170,000 per employee in this specific industry. As you may see the major
development of the industry is toward the export I mean you are pretty constant on the local volume
the reason being is that at the past the bigger consumer of our local production was the military
but defense budgets are being cut all over the world and also in Israel and we are diverting more
and more into the commercial and civilian markets and we are taking obviously technologies that
have been derived from the military field into the civilian electronics which was again described
by the Prime Minister as one of the sources to our high growth in that sector. You can see that the
sectors in the export market of the electronic business would be between components industrial
medical military and the fastest growing one is the communication which grows really at about 30% a
year that is twice as fast as the total electronic sector is in the communication and I assume that
in Italy probably it might be the same. In terms of the segment that I would say that the high
growth represent out of the total exports you see it's about 26% but it's going very up and if
you ask my estimate in about 10 years from now it might constitute more than 50 or even 60% of
our total export because this is again as I said is the fastest growing field that we have today
and is based mostly on know-how and not on raw materials. You can also see very clearly that
we are going down in the military side but we are going up in the civilian side so there is
definite shift from the military export and military electronics into civilian electronics.
Just a few facts about the competitiveness in the sector. You can see let's say if you are
talking hourly wages in the electronic sector and we are comparing let's say USA Italy USA
Canada you can see where Israel stands at about $12 per hour fully loaded that would be the
cost for production in the high-tech sector in Israel obviously in other sectors it is lower
but you can see that if you go to Germany or Holland and these places it's a much higher and
again I'm talking about production worker so there is a merit there is a merit for a production in
Israel even though we have a quite high of GNP per capita as was mentioned of about $17,000 per
capita. In general the high-tech output represent as I said about 50% of the industrial production
at all, 65% of Israel export in the high-tech field. We have the higher per capita number of
science graduates worldwide I'll show it in a minute. The research and development spending
of about 3% of the GDP is the highest in the world I'll show it again in comparison and we believe
that we have the highest concentration of startups outside the Silicon Valley and you take this the
area of Israel is about the area of California and registered and unregistered startup you come to
about 3,000 startups and we don't know of any other place in the world where you have this kind
of a concentration of startup dealing with high-tech. In terms of comparison in research and
development you can see on the graph percentage wise I mean Israel is at the top of the list
obviously if you're talking in absolute values that's a different story because after all we
don't have a trillion dollar economy but only something like 70-80 billion dollars but
percentage wise you can see the effort that we are doing in terms of promoting the research
and development and our chief scientist Dr. Honor Burry is going to refer to it in the next lecture.
In terms of distribution of profession again it was mentioned by the Prime Minister you can see
that due to the concentration on the high-tech as well as the absorption of the immigration from
the Soviet Union in terms of technical profession a concentration and proportion to capita you see
that Israel stands again ahead of the USA, Japan, Korea or Germany in terms of technical professions
per the population. In terms of holder of science and engineering post-garage degrees this is the
1995 figure but it's not very different from the 1996 you see again that in science and
engineering in post-graduates per 10,000 in working population we have about close to four
and a half percent which is very very high therefore in half per 10,000 excuse me. What are the areas
in which you are concentrating? They are quite numerous. All of them really kind of have been
identified as future areas and they would be in the information technology, environmental technologies,
electronics and electro-optics, optics and lasers, multimedia, medical technology, telecommunication,
data communication, sensing and biotechnology. These would be the main areas in which we are
just to give you an idea if we go and innovation that we have in our startups some of them are
worldwide innovations that is we were the first one to introduce them into the world market and
they would be on multiplexing system based on SDHs, Gronius digital hierarchy standards, voice and
handwritten recognition, wireless local area networks, voice and video compression and internet
communication for video, voice, data, fax. We were the first one to introduce them. Companies like
Wacaltech and so on. Firewall security for internet. Companies like checkpoint. They came first into
the market identifying really huge potential of the internet that we have today. Intelligent
cabling, computer-based high-speed color printing and many other really state-of-the-art fields in
which we are involved in our operation. Just to show you since the information technology and
internet is a very hot issue today, we are obviously developing a lot of things for the era of
electronic commerce over the internet which is going really to revolutionize all the way in which
we do business banking, schooling, shopping and so on. So we are going obviously into the smart card
issue, electronic commerce, voice and video communication on the internet, firewall safe,
remote access, wireless internet access to bypass the telephone systems that we have, network
management, imaging and pattern recognition, signature recognition, fault detection, encryption
and many other things. Some of them are derived obviously from our military technologies but all
are being applied today very intensively into the fast-rapiding field of the internet. If we are
talking about telecommunication which is again the fast-growing sector in our electronic high
speed network, we are dealing with satellite terminals, ISDN terminals, ATM and LAN switches or SDH which
are really the new switching technologies of the future to enable switching of data from all kind,
two-way radios, cellular radios, video encryption and compression, HDSL and ADSL to enable
transmission of high-speed data on corporate telephone lines, CATV communication because we
are going to open now the cable television also for telephone, multimedia and interactive
application, not just broadcasting on a cable TV and various telephone exchanges, multiplexer,
router, statistical modems. They are all to be found in many of these companies. Israel is also very
known for the electro-optics and lasers. Again, this is a military-deriven technologies and we
have more than 100 companies and 30 technology incubators in the field. Some of them you might
have heard about like Indigo, Cytex, Orbotech, L.O., Planoptics and the specialization would be in
testing, measurement, inspection, digital printing, military, obviously lasers, imaging, fall detection,
manufacturing, medical systems, medical application like surgery, microsurgery, they all fall into
that one. Israel is also very known as a kind of world center for software development. Actually among
very famous centers in Japan, India, Brazil, U.S. and Israel are considered to be a club of very
high advanced software development capabilities and we have more than 200 software houses that are
traded on the NASDAQ. By the way, out of the high-tech companies, Israel is the second country after Canada,
today maybe the first one, which has got companies traded at the NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange.
They have been able to raise more than $3 billion in that stock exchange and the value of the companies
today there is over $30 billion and it's quite substantial in comparison to any other country
which is investing in the U.S. or trying to raise money for high-tech products.
