di cui si rilascia l'informazione.
È difficile perché non penso che qualcuno abbia mai comprato o ha venduto niente
se non pensava che aveva alcuna informazione.
È davvero di come si riempie l'informazione
e se è in generale disponibile
anziché di venire da qualche formato di canale privilagato.
Ed è qui che hai le definizioni dell'informazione,
è preciso, non pubblico, ecc.
Questa è una memoria di aiuto
per la definizione dell'insider training,
che è un concetto molto difficile.
Il scopo di MAD, in realtà,
rilascia tutte le transazioni in questi mercati finanziari
che sono portati su una base regolata o no,
e che include i comoditivi e i derivati,
che sono una nuova classe di derivati,
che vengono attraverso e che l'esercito energetico
è, forse, l'user più grande di questi.
Il scopo territoriale duale.
Questo è un scopo nascosto.
In altre parole, se un traditore in Milan
fa una traccia con il suo collega in Zürich
e poi crede che ci sia
una formazione di insider training
che si fa in Italia
e che le organizzazioni appropriate
in Zürich possano investigare
questa attività.
E questo è un punto molto importante.
Le previsioni.
Il traditore in insider
può essere splito in tre zone.
Le previsioni.
Insider dealing, improper disclosure,
in other words, the improper disclosure of information,
the misuse of information.
We then go to the defense.
I go through there and we have the usual decisions
as to whether the deal should have been done,
dealing to satisfy legal requirements
which existed prior to the information.
These are all areas which the lawyers
will make a lot of money out of.
Market makers, again, are pushing their legitimate business
that they will have a defense in this particular area.
And, again, you get into the other one
of the famous Chinese walls
which we hear so much about.
The impact.
Market manipulation
and closure regime.
Market manipulation, again,
it's three offenses. It's the transaction
and orders to trade which in themselves
could give false or misleading signals
or maintain or depress the finds
at an artificial level.
And this is a particular difficult one
where you're building order books.
Book building would have to watch this one quite carefully.
Transactions, orders to trade,
employees, fictitious devices,
anything they use to support a trade fictitiously.
Dissemination of information, this is the most likely one,
to give false or misleading signals
or indications on any particular operation.
There is a disclosure regime.
Disclosure and control of information.
Preparation and maintenance of insider lists
and transactions by persons
discharging managerial responsibilities
and their connected persons.
Again, key provisions.
The safe harbor or regular test
and the need to be approved
by a relevant competent authority.
I think there will be very few accepted market practices
because this is clearly a way out
of insider trading and it's not difficult
to imagine these will be reduced to a minimum.
Again, here we list the people
who could be thought to have
research conflicts of interest.
We've listed those there and for you to see
the distinction between people who produce information
and those who use them and those who use
people's recommendations for the point of view
of making sales to their own clients.
Suspicious transaction reporting.
This is a very difficult one.
It's the competent of UIC in Italia.
It applies to firms arranging transactions,
reasonable suspicion reporting immediately.
No tipping off.
Tipping off is a phrase that comes from horse racing
where a punter tells somebody else
who he thinks is going to win.
In other words, if a trader knows
or feels that suspicious activity has gone on,
if he then informs
the other party to the transaction
that he feels is a suspicion and he might report it,
he himself is then in trouble.
So no tipping off.
There is no obligation, however, to review
all past transactions which is a point forward
and no defensive reporting.
In other words, you can't spin the story to your own side.
Just quickly, I'll go through this very quickly
because what I wanted to show here,
this is just going on to regulatory environment.
The point coming through here is that
the EU does not want to impose
regulatory laws on people.
What they want to do is for individual countries
to produce their own codes,
but that's a code that's not a law.
We will get
therefore the spin-off in Europe, hopefully,
that with the Americans producing more and more regulation,
if the European Union
can operate in a system of codes,
there may well be greater enthusiasm
to list businesses in Italy,
Germany, France, United Kingdom,
rather than America,
and therefore have to cope with all the costs that SEC
and the others impose.
We're already seeing this happening in private banking
when many banks have just written to their clients saying
if you're a US resident, I'm sorry you can no longer continue
to have private banking business with us. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I would like to try to bring a broad
European perspective to this.
I'm going to be asking three basic questions.
What's the state of corporate governance in Europe?
Is the overall picture improving
in terms of protecting the private sector


and others who might be hurt by financial scandals?
And finally, are we moving towards convergence
of corporate governance systems and standards
across the European Union?
Underlying this, there is an important role
for communications. It's not just a question
of what a company does,
it's a question also of what investors
and its public perceive it to be doing.
Companies will only inspire confidence
if they can demonstrate that they are pursuing
the best practice.
There's a role for the media as well in encouraging this
and asking hard questions about those companies
which do not have the best corporate governance.
It's probably unrealistic to expect journalists
to uncover every scandal.
After all, we don't have powers to enter companies
and seize documents and emails,
though it might be fun if we did.
But as we've heard before,
during the bubble the media collectively
perhaps did not ask the tough questions
we should have been asking of some companies.
And we have to ask, does what we know about a company
match what is being claimed about its performance?
After scandals such as Enron,
Worldcom and Tyco occurred in the United States,
there was briefly a feeling among some Europeans
that things were somehow better here
and that Europe's business models were perhaps
less vulnerable to the excesses of aggressive
American capitalism.
Any such complacency was short-lived.
A variety of scandals have since occurred at Royal Ahold,
the Dutch retailer, although much of the problem
was in the US, at Scandia in Sweden,
at Royal Dutch Shell over the booking of oil reserves,
at Vivendi Universal in France
where grand ambitions of world domination collapsed,
in Germany where frauds occurred among
technology enterprises on the Neumarkt
and of course here in Italy at Cheerio and at Parmalat,
the biggest of them all, and in the UK
we've seen scandals in the financial services industry
over a number of consumer products.
Europe is certainly not immune to financial abuses,
although the risks are often different
from those in the United States.
US corporate scandals have typically involved
senior managers, the company's employees,
abusing assets at the expense of shareholders.
A lot of the problems have at their root
executive remuneration schemes involving stock options,
the temptation to manipulate the way a company's profits
were presented in order to boost the share price
and therefore also the pay of the executive was very great.
That situation is less common in Europe but not unknown
and as executive pay increases in some countries
and as shareholders press quite rightly
for remuneration to be more closely linked to performance,
more of these problems could occur in future.
On the whole though it's harder for executives to abuse
shareholders' interests in Europe,
the pattern of controlling shareholders or families
or blocks of investors means that a company's owners
are more consistently and deeply involved than in the US.
Europe more often faces a different problem,
abuse by the controlling shareholder
of the interests of minority shareholders and others
and that was certainly the case at Parmalat.
The system common in Europe brings a further risk
of underperformance rather than accounting fraud.
If pay systems are too flat,
if there are too few rewards related to performance,
then managers may not have sufficient incentives
to achieve the best results for shareholders
and that balance has to be struck.
What is hard to arrive at is a definitive view
of how healthy the European system is.
Have all the scandals been exposed
or are there some we have not detected?
Even with increased levels of disclosure
it's hard to be sure what really goes on inside many companies.
For the same reason, although much effort is going into
improving corporate governance standards across the continent,
it's too early to tell what the results will be.
A lot is happening, things are changing fast,
something is going on in virtually every country,
legislation is being passed, codes of governance
are being created or revised,
there is more pressure for disclosure, more media scrutiny,
a belief that things should be more transparent,
that conflicts of interest must be dealt with,
that there is a bigger role for independent
non-executive directors to play.
And at the EU level the European Commission,
apart from the abuse directive we have already seen,
is proposing legislation to compel companies
to include a statement in their annual reports
saying what code of governance applies,
what parts they have chosen not to apply
and reasons for doing so,
and information on internal control and risk management.
Legislation is also planned to stop off balance sheet
vehicles being used to hide losses,
to require the rotation of audit partners or firms
and increase cross-border shareholders' rights.
And the Commission has issued voluntary recommendations
urging companies to disclose boardroom pay
and boost the role of independent directors.
Here in Italy you have the Draghi Law in 1998
requiring more transparent reporting and greater protection for minorities
and a year later Mr. Predo's governance code.
Since Parmalat many companies have speeded up their efforts
to match or exceed the best practice.
Telecom Italia for example now has a majority of independent directors.
Companies such as Enel, Fiat and Unicredito
have bombarded shareholders with information
about directors' auditing rules and shareholder rights
that was once hard to obtain.
This is where communication comes in.
It's important for companies not just to be transparent
but to be seen to be transparent
and to act themselves without waiting for the authorities to act.
The response at the political level by contrast
has been slower and much more mixed.
Yes, Consol now has some more powers
including the right to conduct searches of companies
and it's shown its teeth in the case of Banca Popolare di Lodi
and Banca Anton Veneta.
But the broader measures to reform the fragmented regulatory structure
were weakened and have been stuck in parliament for months.
On the whole though the range and scope of what is being done at Europe
at EU and at national level
I would say is arguably more encompassing than in the US
where the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
is largely focusing on financial control and audit.
Europe's proposals in many ways move in the same direction
in rotation of auditors and internal controls
but they lack the very detailed systems of internal control
required by Sarbanes-Oxley,
the hugely controversial 404 certifications.
The type of measures being introduced around Europe
seem to me to be broadly right.
At the EU level the things that are proposed to be mandatory
are largely to do with disclosure.
Matters to do with how companies organise themselves
would be voluntary.
And that is the case in the national codes
with the so-called comply or explain principle.
There are, after all, all kinds of different companies
from those with multi-billion euro market capitalisations
to new start-ups.
And it is for boards to decide how to structure their governance systems
and justify them to shareholders.
That encourages responsibility.
If regulators lay down every detail of how a company should be organised
the directors will simply say
we're not responsible, it's not our fault,
we're just doing what the regulators tell us to do.
As to whether this mixture of measures will work
I think we must reserve judgement.
For the majority of companies I hope and expect that it will.
There are some difficult issues,
such as a shortage of people qualified and willing
to play the difficult role of a truly independent director
and how independent can such directors be
in companies where there is a dominant shareholder.
Whether all the measures that are currently being put in place
will in future prevent the kind of scandals
that we have seen in the past few years is harder to say.
Each bull market and its aftermath
produces new types of excesses.
As for my final question, are Europe's governance systems converging?
I think the answer is broadly yes
and that is a desirable thing.
Though whether it could ever go so far as an EU-wide
code of corporate governance is doubtful.
Financial and share ownership systems
differ widely still.
You've only to think what a code constructed to suit all these systems
would look like to realise what the difficulties would be.
But where companies are operating
under similar conditions in different countries
or operating across borders
or have a substantial proportion of international shareholders
I think the market will increasingly demand
similar standards of corporate governance
and that is to be encouraged.
In the age of globalisation
the corporate world is a much more intimate place
and that is a tide that will not be turned.
