Presidente, prime ministeri, autorità, signore e signore, è un grande onore per me di essere qui con voi oggi.
E mi piacerebbe dire di nuovo a Presidente Yusuf e a Presidente Lorenzo,
come a tutti voi, per questa opportunità storica offerta all'Italia.
L'invitazione di partecipare all'Assemblea del Presidente del Stato e del Governo dell'Unione Africana,
il forum in cui l'organizzazione discussa le sue scelte politiche fondamentali
e determina la direzione strategica del continente,
è una riconoscenza che può solo rendere l'Italia orgogosa
e che l'Italia accetterebbe con rispetto e un senso di responsabilità.
È una demonstrazione di fiducia che non ci farà dissapostare.
Ho l'onore di ledere una nazione che ha in selle delle caratteristiche
che storicamente la rende un partner rispettato e valido,
propensità per il dialogo, capacità per la discussione, rispetto per l'altro prima di tutto altro.
Una nazione che ha costruito parte della sua identità e della sua politica francesa
sul profondo significato di una guerra che, in volte,
non è stabila e non è in grado di essere in grado di essere nostra,
può essere la chiave per scegliere la cura.
E quella guerra è cooperazione.
La cooperazione di guerra viene dal latino, co-operare,
a lavorare con.
La vera cooperazione, cioè, non si vede mai un soggetto attivo e passivo,
ma esiste solo in una relazione tra i quali,
una relazione in cui le specificità di ogni uno sono indispensabili
per raggiungere un obiettivo comune.
Se guardi a qualcuno, non puoi cooperare con lui.
Se vuoi planificare le risorse, non puoi cooperare con lui.
Anche se vuoi dare una caratteristica, non puoi chiamarla cooperazione,
perché la cooperazione è un'altra cosa.
E cosa vuole l'Italia fare è cooperare.
Ieri, insieme a molti di voi,
abbiamo attenduto il secondo summit dell'Africa dell'Italia,
il primo a essere preso su questo continentale.
Voglio ringraziare il prime ministero etiopico, il mio amico Abiy Ahmed,
e i leader dell'Unione africa per la loro ospitalità
e cooperazione nell'organizzare l'evento.
In questo contesto, abbiamo discutato cosa possiamo fare
per migliorare e consolidare l'uno dei risultati più concreti di questa idea di cooperazione,
che è il plan Mattei per l'Africa.
Il plan di investimento che l'Italia ha implementato in diversi paesi del continente,
in area ranging from infrastructure to agriculture,
from health to training.
This is a strategy that we have built together,
because we do not conceive of the Mattei plan as an Italian plan for Africa,
but as Italy's contribution to your agenda,
with a particular focus this year on water-related projects.
It is an open platform for putting our know-how,
our technologies, our investments at the service of the objectives
that the African Union has set out in Agenda 2063,
starting with the creation of a continental free trade area
that is integrated and prosperous.
This is an ambitious goal which we support
and which will require efficient, secure,
and fast economic interconnections in order to be achieved.
Like the Lobito Corridor, the railway and infrastructure backbone
that will connect African markets to global ones
and bring people, ideas, and economies closer together,
a strategic project that sees Italy at the forefront,
together with the United States and the European Union.
In short, the Mattei plan is a comprehensive strategy
that generates concrete benefits for our peoples
and aims to continually expand its scope,
relying on the irreplaceable contribution of major United Nations agencies,
and I want to thank the Secretary General Antonio Guterres,
but also the World Bank, the African Development Bank,
and many other partners who increasingly share our vision.
Two years ago in Rome we set out the course together,
and in recent years we have followed it with consistency and determination,
adding a new piece to the mosaic each time
and bringing new nations on board every year.
We have done so on many fronts,
starting with what I consider to be crucial
for building a true free Africa capable of determining its own destiny,
addressing the issue of debt.
We wanted to chart a course on this issue as well.
Therefore, Italy has decided to launch a vast program
to convert the debt of African nations,
which includes, among its main points,
the complete transformation of the debt of the most fragile
and vulnerable countries into investments
and the strengthening of the contribution to the World Bank's AIDA funds.
Similarly, we have introduced specific debt suspensions
which our intention closes into our bilateral loans,
allowing African nations affected by extreme weather events
to free up fiscal space to help their population
and rebuild essential infrastructures.
These are choices based on justice and responsibility,
which are crucial for freeing up resources that are vital for development
and for assuring peace and prosperity,
including in those areas of the continent
that are currently more affected than others by instability,
insecurity and serious humanitarian crisis,
such as neighboring Sudan and Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.
We also want our collaboration to be political at the multilateral level.
We want to help strengthen the valuable work carried out daily by the African Union,
ensuring greater consistency to the mediation activities carried out
by the UN and the European Union and key international partners.
We will continue to do our part,
because we are aware that the future of Italy and Europe
also depends on a secure, prosperous and peaceful Africa.
It is often said in the many analysis of the troubled and complex times we are living in
that history has started running again.
This is true, and my opinion is that today it is running here.
Africa is not a marginal chapter in this story, far from it.
And those who do not understand this scenario are being left behind.
But those who understand this scenario see the reality.
A continent with a thousand peculiarities and a thousand demands,
some of which are very different from each other.
A continent rich in resources, raw materials and arable land,
which can count on a decisive force in the age of knowledge, which is human capital.
This is why Italy has focused much of its energy on training projects for young people,
including in the field of artificial intelligence.
In short, our point of view is that Italy and Europe cannot think about the future
without taking Africa into proper consideration,
because our future also depends on yours.
Aware of this, Italy intends to continue to be a privileged bridge between Europe and Africa,
making available the strength of its institutions, its great tradition of dialogue
and the expertise of its companies.
We want to do this also to achieve another goal that we all consider momentous,
to guarantee the men and women of this continent a freedom that has often been denied them,
the freedom to choose to remain in their country,
to contribute to its growth without being forced to leave it,
often paying unscrupulous traffickers to risk their lives in an attempt to cross the Mediterranean.
Those who believe that migration is necessary and indispensable are in fact acting selfishly.
If young people leave their land and their people in pursuit of the promise of a better life,
what will become of the history, culture and existence of a country they have abandoned?
These words are not mine, nor those of a political leader,
but of a son who is proud of Africa and who holds Africa's future close to his heart,
which is the Guinean Cardinal Robert Sarrach.
Clearly, in order to guarantee the right not to have to emigrate,
it is necessary to offer concrete opportunities for training and work,
to enhance human capital and improve the quality of education,
invest in skills and educational systems,
and create industrial partnerships and joint ventures capable of generating stable quality employment in the territories.
This is our mission, which is being put into practice in the many initiatives that Italy is promoting,
including together with the African Union.
What I would like to see today is in this solemn place dedicated to another great son of a free and proud Africa, Nelson Mandela.
It is a great alliance between us to put training, research, university and innovation at the center of our common commitment.
An alliance aimed not at taking away talent,
but at multiplying it and building a model of development that respects people and values different identities.
Presidents, Prime Ministers, dear friends,
Pliny the Elder, one of the most famous historians of ancient Rome,
said that something new always arises from Africa.
So my wish for each of us is that something new may truly arise from today's meeting,
something that no one expects or that many consider impossible.
For impossible is usually the word that people without courage use,
something capable of astonishing the world and suddenly making everything we have seen so far seem trivial.
I thank you all.
Thank you.
