Grazie, signor Presidente.
Dio colleghi, non c'è nessuno che può affrontare solo i problemi globali
come il cambiamento climatico e la vulnerabilità dei sistemi di cibo.
Come membri della G20, abbiamo le responsabilità di trovare un modo per avvicinare a questo.
Ma sappiamo anche che il modo per avvicinare deve essere basato sul senso comune.
In mia opinione, dobbiamo abbandonare una volta e per tutto l'ideologico dogmatismo
che è causato più di male che di buono.
In Europa, ad esempio, le scelte sono state fatte nel passato,
che hanno portato tutto il settore produttivo ai suoi piedi
senza produrre alcun beneficio reale in termini di emissioni globali.
E in Africa, le approcce dogmatiche impostate da partner foreign
che non prendono into account the specificities of African nations,
paradoxically risk reinforcing all patterns of dependency.
This is a losing strategy.
So a pragmatic balance must be found between the need to limit emissions
and the risk of compromising the most advanced productive systems
and preventing the weaker ones from establishing themselves.
In our opinion, the challenge is to affirm the principle of technological neutrality
because there is no single solution capable of quickly building
a solid alternative to fossil fuel supplies,
but also because dispersed research, innovation and virtuous competition.
The energy mix must be balanced and must combine all available technologies,
renewable gas, hydrogen, biofuels, CO2 capture systems,
as well as research into nuclear fusion
which would change history by producing clean, safe and unlimited energy.
This is the approach that inspires Italy
and to which we contribute with industrial expertise, technological capabilities,
new financial instruments and cooperation with other nations.
For example, we've launched investments in Africa worth a total of almost 2.5 billion euros,
financing projects ranging from the construction of large renewable energy plants
to innovative solutions for production and storage.
And also on food systems, Italy continues to do its part.
We co-organize the last United Nations Summit on Food Systems with Ethiopia.
We are making our agri-food know-how available to our African partners
and we are building public-private partnerships with them that guarantee concrete results.
We are successfully working on this, for example in Algeria,
where we are working together to reclaim over 36,000 hectares of desert
to produce up of 45,000 tons more cereals and legumes per year,
generating benefits for over 600,000 people.
And we are now replying this experiment in Senegal, Ghana and Congo
and aim to involve other nations on the continent.
But I want to be clear while closing my remarks.
Our goal is not to create dependency.
Our goal is to support self-sufficiency
because we believe in dignity of people, we believe in the freedom of nations
and we believe in the strength of genuine partnerships.
Thank you, Mr. President.
